Overall, this semester has been a learning experience. I did not know what PostgreSQL is, let along what it takes to set up the program on Ubuntu servers. I feel I am now more familiar with the program and the set up process. 

The beginning of the semester, I spent more time reading about the program, PostgreSQL, on their website. Most of the introduction was rather familiar stuff, going over the basics of the commands and about some of the initial set up process. It felt more like it was written just about the code itself and was not as specific on whether it would be with a screen or with a command line. As it went into the chapters, the discussion became more specific. The chapters started discussing real types of features that could be used in the program. At that time, I switched more to the installation process on the server. 

Once I learned more about the server and how to log into Ubuntu, my main focus became the installation process. Since I had to use commands for everything because there was no screen, I did a little research into that to make sure I was not missing anything. I was not to familiar with using a command line for everything, so that was a learning experience as well. I started the installation process of PostgreSQL to be used within the command line and not through a visual application. 

The installation process was successful. I messed around with some sample data and put that into the database. Once I was familiar with that, I switched to another set of familiar data that I received. This data was the same data that I used in the Development of Databases course. Inputting that data into a command line because a bit of a learning process. At first, I was not sure if it could handle just a simple copy and paste of the data. On top of that, some of the data was being displayed wrong. I found out the display problem was because of the screen size, compared to the size and width of the data and table. WIth the copy and paste of the command input, it looked odd when I would paste more than one line of a command into the command line. Doing so meant a lot of time going back and forth between inputing the data and seeing if the data was properly inputted.  

After that whole ordeal, the next step was to get a visual application layout for PostgreSQL. Since I had to use a command line for everything, specific ways to install the visual application for PostgreSQL, titled phppgadmin, were required for instructions. 
